---
title: Stop Stumbling Around in React Learning Darkness
slug: stop-stumbling-around-in-react-learning-darkness
date: 2020-09-28
image: '/stop-stumbling-around-in-react-learning-darkness/image@2x.png' # in static folder
socialImage: 'https://epicreact.dev/stop-stumbling-around-in-react-learning-darkness/card@2x.png'
imageAlt: 'illustration of stairs in darkness with spotlight shedding light as a metaphor for react.js'
excerpt:
  Epic React is your learning spotlight so you can ship harder, better, faster,
  stronger
---

At the end of a long day when the lights are out and I lie down in bed ready to
fall into a blissful sleep, sometimes my wife will remind me that I forgot to
lock the back door. When this happens, for some reason I often decide
(irrationally) to take a chance in the darkness rather than turn on my phone's
flashlight. Maybe it's because I like living on the edge. Maybe I'm not
thinking. Whatever the reason, doing this is... dangerous.

It's dangerous because I have four children and a dog who's as black as night.
If I'm lucky, I'll return to the sanctuary of my bed unscathed with nothing more
than an increased heart rate (what a rush!). But often I'll also have stepped on
some toys, kicked a door frame, bumped into the banister, and on really
unfortunate nights, stepped on my snoozing dog (sorry Gemma!).

Learning can be a lot like stumbling around in the darkness. Except not only is
there no illumination to guide you, you're also in someone else's house and
their kids are less clean than yours and their dogs are darker and less
forgiving than yours. Sound terrifying? If you've ever learned something new,
you know it is.

The big problem is you don't know what you don't know. This means you don't know
what to look for. You try something and it "works" but you don't know why it
works or whether there's a better or easier (less painful) way to do it. You're
trying to lock the back door and you walk around the couch 8 times because
you're not sure whether there's a more direct route to get there. If you're
lucky, you've got other co-workers alongside you.

If you're really lucky they've done this before and can guide you along. But
more often they're either too busy or they're just as inexperienced as you are
and all they can do is hold your hand and tell you "it's going to be ok." While
this is appreciated, it's not directly helpful.

When you're learning something new, you're stumbling in the sea of things you
don't know you don't know. Perhaps you've cobbled together API docs from here, a
tutorial from there, an online course from way over there, and a tweet or two
from back there. You attempt to piece those things together in your mind to try
to give you something that resembles knowledge and experience, but often you'll
find you've tried to shove a round peg in a square hole. There's no cohesion.
And in your rush to create a candle to light your way, you've forgotten the
wick.

The other day I tweeted this:

https://twitter.com/kentcdodds/status/1310042224600649729

I had several people make the suggestion that "learning isn't suffering." I
actually agree with this. "Suffering" is the wrong word for what learning
**should be**. Learning **is** a struggle, but it **should be** guided struggle
where you are presented with problems, but also the right tools and information
you need to identify and implement the solution.

Far too many online courses posing as "learning resources" completely take away
that struggle. They sit you in a high chair and attempt to spoon feed you
knowledge. Unfortunately, leaving out the struggle is basically like forgetting
to put food on the spoon ğŸ¥„. All the movements are there, but none of the
sustenance. They show you the happy path of what you're trying to do and leave
you to fend for yourself on error messages (or worse, silent errors) only to
later realize that the solution they've given you won't work for the problem
you're facing.

There's different kind of struggles though. There's the struggle of working
through a problem with a solution that you've been guided into by experience.
This first kind of struggle is what creates retention so you can use that as a
gained skill later. And then there's the struggle of hitting a wall on some
unrelated problem that's simply a road block to what you're really trying to
learn.

Maybe you haven't experienced the first, but you've probably experienced the
second. That wall-hitting struggle is so often (and unfortunately) unavoidable.
Eventually you'll bust down that wall and you'll leave victorious with knowledge
of how to bust down that wall in the future, but the victory is hollow because
you'll never hit that wall again anyway. It's a side-quest with all the
challenge, but none of the reward. Maybe it's fun in the moment, but when you're
done your product is not shipped and your manager is not sure you deserve the
raise you asked for.

Another struggle involves the struggle of "holding it wrong" or "using the wrong
tool for the job." This often comes from learning about the tools that are
available, but not learning how the tools work, how they should be used, what
problems they're intended to solve, and (just as important) what problems
they're _not_ intended to solve. For example, maybe you heard once that using
`React.useCallback`, `React.useMemo`, and `React.memo` will improve performance,
so you start applying those tools everywhere. And now you're struggling because
your code is more complex than it needs to be and in the back of your mind
you're worried about that one time the component didn't re-render when it should
have.

Learning _can be_ suffering if you're doing the wrong kind of struggling.
Stumbling around in the learning darkness is not fun or productive. It's
frustrating and far too many people give up completely when that's their
experience when struggling to learn.

But there's a way to avoid suffering when learning: **Have a complete and
cohesive guide that provides the right kind of struggle and a support system to
help you avoid the wrong kind.**

This is [EpicReact.Dev](https://epicreact.dev)

It's not a candle. It's a freaking spotlight.

EpicReact is not just a "happy path" video course that will leave you with all
the pieces, no instructions, and no support telephone number. EpicReact is a
series of workshops that shows you the tools you can use, how to use them, and
gives you experience with the right kind of struggle. The kind that helps you
side-step distracting and wasteful side-quests and promotes the reward bearing
ones. The kind of struggle that requires work on your part, but work that gives
you actual learning retention. It's the kind of struggle that gives you a
support system for those times when you're really stuck and things aren't quite
clicking for you.

Stop stumbling around in React learning darkness. I've got a spotlight for you
so you don't step on any legos or poor innocent dogs. I'm excited to give you
the _right_ kind of learning struggle on [EpicReact.Dev](https://epicreact.dev).

import Article from '../../components/article'

export default ({children, pageContext, ...props}) => (
  <Article {...pageContext} {...props}>
    {children}
  </Article>
)
